$Id: README,v 1.7 2003/04/15 19:04:37 chrisp Exp $   -*- text -*-

 disktype 4
============

The purpose of disktype is to detect the content format of a disk or
disk image. It knows about common file systems, partition tables, and
boot codes.

The program is written in C and is designed to compile on any modern
Unix flavour. It is self-contained and doesn't need special libraries,
headers, or data files. As an exception, the CoreServices framework is
used on Mac OS X to get the Mac OS type and creator code of a file.


 Installation
--------------

GNU make is required to build disktype. The Makefile is set up to use
GCC, but disktype should compile with any C compiler. To change the
compiler, you can edit the Makefile or set the standard variables CC,
CPPFLAGS, CFLAGS, LDFLAGS, and LIBS from the make command line.

Running make results in the binary 'disktype'. Copy it to a 'bin'
directory of your choice, optionally stripping it on the way. That's
all.


 Usage
-------

The 'disktype' program can be run with any number of regular files or
block devices as arguments. They will be analyzed in the order
given, and the results printed to standard output. There are no
switches in this version. Note that running disktype on block devices
like your hard disk will likely require root rights.


 Recognized Formats
--------------------

The following formats are recognized by this version of disktype.

File systems: FAT12/FAT16/FAT32, ext2/ext3, Minix, MFS, HFS, HFS Plus,
  ISO9660, ReiserFS, NTFS, HPFS, Linux romfs, Linux cramfs, UFS (some
  variations), JFS, Linux squashfs, XFS, Amiga FS/FFS.

Partitioning: DOS/PC style, Apple, Amiga "Rigid Disk", ATARI ST
  (AHDI3), Linux RAID physical disks, Linux LVM physical volumes.

Other structures: Debian split floppy header, Linux swap.

Boot codes: LILO, GRUB, SYSLINUX, ISOLINUX, Linux kernel.

Compression formats: gzip, compress, bzip2.

Archive formats: tar, cpio, bar, dump/restore.

Compressed files (gzip, compress, bzip2 formats) will also have their
contents analyzed using transparent decompression. The appropriate
compression program must be installed on the system, i.e. 'gzip' for
the gzip and compress formats, 'bzip2' for the bzip2 format.

Raw-mode CD images (e.g. the .bin file of a .bin/.cue pair) are
recognized and translated transparently. Since version 3 this actually
looks at the data instead of guessing based on file size. It still
doesn't know about multiple tracks or sessions, but seems to be
sufficient even for (S)VCD disks.


 Future Plans
--------------

To fulfill its purpose, disktype needs to know about as much formats
as possible. If you know a file system not yet included and can
provide me with (pointers to) format information, please contact me at
<chrisp@users.sourceforge.net>. I'm also looking for information on
disk image formats (e.g. used by backup apps or CD mastering
software).


EOF
